the World Health Organization says Gaza
is in an imminent Public Health
catastrophe well let's get more now on
the situation on the ground in Gaza
we've been speaking to our correspondent
rushi Abu Alou last night there was like
a little Bose of air strikes here in
kenun but this morning about four air
strikes in different area resumed and we
have to remember that this area is
considered safe area but Israel keep
targeting places here in the South where
about 2third of the population now
moved from the north into the into the
South but the main focus of the Israeli
operation is in Gaza City and last night
it was intensified in the northwest of
Gaza Strip it's a place called Bia it's
near the coastal and near the Israeli
Border in the north there was very heavy
fighting in the area very few people who
are still
having are able to communicate we're
talking to local radios we managed to
talk to someone in jabalia Camp close to
the to the area and he he was talking
about how serious the air strikes there
and how massive the explosions in the
area they said the dust and the smoke
were making a real issue for the
civilians who are still living in the
area we are talking about 700,000 people
are still in the operation area in the
place where Israel has been bombing day
and night in in in that also in Gaza
City and there was also another a couple
of strikes around the alotz hospital
it's the hospital that Israel keep
insisting and calling the director to
leave he said it's impossible because
about 14,000 people are taking the
hospital as shelter and about 100
patient are being treated eight eight or
10 of them were connected to the life
saving machines we are getting report
today about another 30 trucks are
heading back to H Gaza from the Egyptian
side they said the process is very slow
the UN the largest U Aid agency is also
struggling to find trucks and fuel to
move the ER food and medicine that Egypt
has been sending into Gaza a large
amount of Aid are on the ground between
the two Crossings and the they they said
the the the the operation is very slow
and it needs to be more sufficient to
allow more more uh trucks into Gaza what
we have so far is 150 trucks in the last
10 days and what we need according to
the UN is 100 truck a minimum of 100
truck every
day uh that is rushi AB ALU our
correspondent who uh is as always
reporting for us from inside Gaza one of
the few correspondents in international
media who is able to report from inside
Gaza well the US says it's optimistic
the number of a trucks entering Gaza
will soon increase to around 100 a day
they're likely to come through the Rafa
border crossing with Egypt uh you can
see it there at the bottom of that map
well Rafa is uh as as I said a second
ago on the far left of this map of Gaza
uh well let's cross live now to Cairo in
Egypt where AID organizations are poised
to help uh there we can talk uh to one
of them Global empowerment Mission
who've been delivering Aid uh to the
area Michael Capone the founder joins me
now Michael it's good to talk to you
thanks for joining us here on the BBC
just tell me exactly uh what is there
and what part it has to play in the a to
Gaza yeah so we've been responding to
both sides of this absolute catastrophy
and uh right now what we're doing is
setting up long-term infrastructure uh
on the road from Cairo to El Rafa and we
set up uh
warehouses and we are amassing food from
all our partners and supplies medical
supplies all throughout the world and
then what's going to happen is as you
said earlier it looks like there'll be a
much uh better Flow by next week it's
absolutely needed that there's minimum
100 trucks that could go in you know per
day with the situation so what we're
doing here is just amassing everything
preparing everything sorting packing and
then our Logistics team along with you
know the help of all the different
clusters that we're involved with with
the UN is involved all the different
agencies um we have Partners on the
ground inside uh Gaza that have been
working there for over a decade they're
incredible aner and the mechanism is to
get it directly into their hands without
it you know having any issues right so
show me show me a little bit of what's
behind you show me a little bit of
what's in that warehouse Michael yeah so
right now there's just uh you can see
there's just four trucks that have
arrived so far this is you know this is
all brand new
operation uh by next week there'll be
racks up here this Warehouse will be
filled and uh you know we we respond in
Ukraine we send about 300 full-size semi
trucks to the front lines of Ukraine
every single month with Howard G Buffett
so you know we're very experienced in
this and in Frontline work and you just
have to build up the systems to be able
to do this this is a really long-term
thing this is even if the war was
completely over tomorrow the collateral
damage that's done right now is going to
be years and years of recovery Michael
tell me a little bit about how you make
sure that the that I see there gets into
uh the people's hands the people who
need it the
most yeah so you know right now there's
been a lot of great forward
Communications between all three
governments and I think there's going to
be a a much more secure green Corridor
by next week that's going to be able to
protect the aid um so far our partners
have been Distributing small amounts of
Aid uh that they've been purchasing with
funds from gem local loc Al believe it
or not there's still Farms that are
producing food out there and that's
what's been happening and they haven't
had any issues so far but you know this
is every single International Aid
organization that we are in
Communications with has never seen
something like this I mean that you have
agencies that have lost 80 employees
already in just two
weeks Michael it's so good to talk to
you thank you very much indeed uh for
not only the work you do but also taking
the time out of what I know is a busy
schedule to speak to us today on the BBC
thanks
again well of course uh that is not the
only Aid agency working uh towards
helping Palestinians in Gaza Let's cross
live now and speak to Julie Megan
country manager at Christian Aid Julie
good to talk to you thanks for joining
us and what is Christine a doing uh
right now uh to help with what's
happening well the very first thing that
we're calling for is an immediate and
permanent ceasefire not a pause but a
permanent ceasefire because that is the
only way to ensure safe and effective
humanitarian delivery across the Gaza
Strip we work through local partner
organizations so we're not waiting for
trucks to get in we've been able to send
um grants to Partners to be able to
respond where they are and those
responses are working communities are
themselves able to support themselves
where possible now that obviously relies
on local markets functioning and
unfortunately we are hearing more and
more that supplies are dwindling so even
if we can transfer grants people cannot
um get the supplies that they need some
of the things that we've been doing are
supporting medical relief Outreach so um
one of our organization one of our
partner organizations has been going to
some of the most affected areas um
oftentimes without fuel for their
vehicles they will use uh bicycles to
get there and provide first aid and and
dressings um for the injured um we're
also working with with um on shelter and
providing sa well spaces for people to
come together um in the South but of
course um you know without a full and
permanent ceasefire there will be no
proper humanitarian response there and
it is important as well to say at this
point that the population of Gaza are
overwhelmingly civilian they're being
punished for war crimes of their defacto
Authority who they voted in in 2006 and
who have they have not been allowed to
have another election since so the
humanitarian need is absolutely colossal
and we are doing everything we can to
work with local Partners on the ground
but the reality is that people are
hungry they are thirsty they are afraid
that they may starve they do not have
fuel and they do not have medical relief
we've heard harrowing reports of people
being treated children and adults being
treated without anesthetic people in
hospitals not able to clean bloody
sheets five children to a bed you know
this we cannot overstate the
humanitarian catastrophe that we're
seeing here and so there has to be an
immediate ceasefire for humanitarian
access to flow Julie let me ask you a
little bit about fuel because we know
it's difficult to get fuel into Gaza we
know that fuel is key not only for
driving people around but you know much
more importantly for things like
Hospital uh you know equipment
generators and a vital equipment to
desalinate uh seawater uh what part
have Christine a played in this or what
more can you tell us via your local
Consultants about Fuel and how it's
going to get into the into Gaza and how
important it is not one drop of fuel has
entered Gaza since the start of this and
as you say you cannot separate fuel from
food from water and from medical relief
so we uh you know partners are running
out of fuel we've had some amazing
stories of real Ingenuity and this is
where our community-based model really
works because communities themselves
have been able to somehow manage to get
generators to work using gas canisters
for example but of course these do not
last but really communities are finding
whatever they possibly can to try and
get um the power that they need some you
know of the centers that we've been
funding have solar panels and so they've
been able to circumvent the fuel prices
that way okay but also but they don't
have electricity um and they don't have
power I'm so sorry Julie we have run out
of time but it's been really important
to get Christie a onto the show I
appreciate your time thank you once
again thank you